If you've been researching health
insurance lately, then you've probably
come across plans that promise
comprehensive coverage with very few
restrictions like no room rent limits,
no co-pay, no sub-limits. Now, it sounds
almost like a perfect checklist. But,
here's the thing. When a plan tries to
offer everything, the real question is
not what it includes, but how well it
actually holds up when you look deeper.
Hello folks, I'm Shashank. You're
watching Ditto Insurance. At Ditto, we
help people understand health insurance
with the help of IRDAI certified
advisors. There'll be no spam, there's
no forceful selling, and no upselling.
If at any point you want help choosing
the right health insurance plan, you can
do that by booking a free call through
the link in the description. All right.
Today, we're breaking down the ICICI
Lombard Health Shield 360 plan in
detail, then give you a balanced take so
you can decide whether this plan fits
your needs. Starting with the insurer,
ICICI Lombard is one of India's leading
private general insurers, operating
since 2001 and listed on both NSE and
BSE. As of 2025, the company reported a
gross written premium. The operational
metrics are on your screen. As you can
see, the CSR is not the best, but it's
decent. The ICR indicates a relatively
balanced claims experience, and the
complaint volume, definitely not that
bad. Now, what this basically tells us
is that while the insurer is large and
established, the experience may not be
as smooth as some of the top-tier peers.
Now, coming to the plan structure
itself, the plan offers both individual
and family floater options with sum
insured ranging from 3 lakhs all the way
up to 3 crore rupees depending on the
variant that you choose. There are
multiple variants under this plan:
Classic, Classic Plus, Elite, Premier,
and Royale. And this is important
because a lot of features are tied to
the variant that you pick. Entry age
starts from 6 years for adults and 3
months for children, and the plan offers
lifelong renewability, which is a
standard but important feature. Okay,
now let's talk about core features. One
of the biggest positives here is absence
of major restrictions. There's no
co-pay, there's no disease-wise
sub-limits, and no room rent or ICU
restrictions. And this is a big deal
because as is seen in many claim
stories, things like room rent limits
and sub-limits are often the reasons
claims get reduced significantly,
leading you paying out of pocket.
Removing these restrictions make the
policy much more usable in your
situation. Pre and post is also quite
strong, 60 of pre-hospitalization
coverage and 180 days of
post-hospitalization, which is fairly
strong. Day care, Ayush, and domiciliary
hospitalization are all covered up to
sum insured. There's also restoration
benefit where your sum insured gets a
refilled once for the same illness and
unlimited times for different illnesses,
but a cooling period of 45 days for same
condition. Now, on top of that, you get
a decent but not amazing loyalty bonus
of 20% every year up to 100% regardless
of claims made. You get unlimited
teleconsultations, wellness programs,
and preventive health services, which
add everyday usability beyond
hospitalization. Waiting periods are
quite standard, 30 days initial except
for accidents, which are covered from
day one. Specific conditions like
diabetes, hypertension, and cardiac
issues have a 90-day waiting period, and
pre-existing diseases have a waiting
period of 1 to 2 years depending on the
variant. Now, this is actually quite
competitive because on the outside,
you'd see that the PED waiting period is
usually 1 to 3 years. Here, it's just 1
to 2. Now, coming to add-ons, and this
is where the plan becomes more layered.
You get options like maternity cover,
which includes expenses up to 1 lakh
rupees depending on the variant, along
with newborn coverage for the first 90
days. There's also claim protector,
which covers consumables and non-payable
items that are usually excluded in many
policies. There's also top protector,
which increases your cover based on
inflation every year, which is useful
given the rising medical costs. You also
have benefits like hospital daily cash,
convalescence benefit, home nursing, and
even compassionate visit coverage for
family members. Now, one standout
feature that I'd like to point out is
the presence of worldwide coverage
including the US and Canada. Though it
comes with a 10% co-pay and certain
limitations like no pre and
post-hospitalization coverage abroad.
Okay, now let's talk about premiums. The
premium chart for different individuals
and different metrics are on your
screen.
So, while the plan offers strong
features, long-term affordability is
something that you need to evaluate
carefully. Now, bringing all together
with a balanced take, on the positive
side, this plan removes some of the
biggest pain points in health insurance.
There is no room rent limits, no co-pay,
and no sub-limits. That alone makes it a
far more usable plan. Now, it also
offers a wide range of features,
wellness benefits, and decent
restoration and bonus structure. But, on
the flip side, not everything is
inbuilt. Many attractive features are
tied to higher variants or available as
add-ons only. So, you need to check what
you're actually getting. Operational
metrics are decent but not best in
class, especially when you look at claim
volumes, and premiums can become quite
steep as you scale coverage or move into
older age brackets. So folks, that was
it from my end. And if you like this
video, then please drop a like,
subscribe, and share this with someone
who wants to buy health insurance. And
if you are at the crossroads of buying
insurance and you want someone's help to
compare plans or help you pick the right
one, then all you have to do is head to
the link in the description and book
your free call. It just takes 2 minutes.
Our calls are free, and you get a
lifetime claim support. All right folks,
I will see you in the next one. Until
then, happy insurance hunting.